In this lesson we're going to be showing you how you can set up access to a very large API and that's
the YouTube API grab information from there.
Pull it back using AJAX pull it back via javascript Ajax as Jason data.
So you are going to need to have a Google account because one of the ways to access YouTube is through
their API and in order to access it you need to have a Google account.
So this is a mandatory thing if you want to get a YouTube API and to access the API you need a key.
So if you dont have a Google account you can go out and sign up for a Google account.
Its available at Google dot com accounts account its free to set up.
And if you dont want to set up a Google account Unfortunately you wont be able to get an API key in
order to pull back the data from the YouTube API.
So you can just follow along within the lesson if you dont want to set up a Google account.
And if you do want to set up a Google account or if you already have one then feel free to follow along
in the next set of steps in order to get your developer key to access your youtube API.
So the API has a lot of information in it and its a great API to practice and get familiar with.
To get more familiar with what you can do with Ajax and Jaison.
So once you have your Google account you're ready to go go over to developers console its console developers.
Google will provide all of the links as well and that will bring you over to this page.
So this is your dashboard that you can enable API eyes and services.
So it may look slightly different but the part that you're looking for is enable API and services so
you can go in and click that one and then from there make sure that you're also logged into your Google
account and you can see they've got a ton of API here.
So we saw earlier in one of the earlier lessons that we were looking at the Maps API.
So there's got a lot of really cool ones here that you can make use of within your applications.
So the one we wanted to look at is YouTube.
So let's grab YouTube data API.
So go ahead and click that link.
And what that does is that opens up the API.
So basically it gives you an illustration of how to use the API key.
We've got our application we use the API key we get access to Google services and then we can retrieve
that information back and use it within our application.
So the next step enable it and there's a lot of details and in youtube and the developers.
So there's just tons of information and pages.
And that's why I do say that it might look different if you already set one up or if you've got set
up it might look different.
So there we go.
So we've got our YouTube data API v3 key all ready to go and we're ready to start using it.
So now we can go over into our credentials or actually our dashboard and that dashboard will show us
YouTube data API.
And so now we're ready to get credentials for this API.
So we need to create credentials
and the one that we want to do is the API key.
So just select the API key and click and you can also select no restrictions.
So basically it gives you this key.
With this number and so grab that number you're going to need to make use of it.
You can copy it this way or you can grab it and copy it and if you actually if you if you lose it you
can always come back into your developer's console the Google console as well.
So good and close that and you can also grab the key from there as well.
So now we're ready.
Let's go ahead and paste our key within our application and we're all ready to go.
So we've set up and we're going to get access to the YouTube API within this format.
So first thing we want to do is we want to actually just maybe make sure that this is working.
So there is a path in all of this documentation that you can search through to the Google API and I'm
going to just simply copy and paste the path it was available within the documentation.
So this is the base you are l and then what you need to do is you need to also add in the key.
So the key is this one here.
So I ask going to go back a bit ad in the key and we also have some other parameters that we can enter
in.
So we've got one for Querrey.
So that skew is query and then whatever that query might be.
So let's let's go ahead and let's try this out first.
And we see that once we enter this in that we're still missing a few parameters.
So we need to do we need to add in part snippet.
So no that's so part snippet.
So I just added that in.
And now once we add that in we actually get all of this information and you see that it's nicely presented
and Jaison and that basically means that we're ready to go.
We also have another parameter here that we can enter in and that's going to be the max results.
So this gives us the ability to control how many results we want to get back.
So if I set the max results to 20 that's going to return back more results I've got results per page
total results.
There's over a million items here.
So a lot of Tanit information we've got.
The next page tokin we've got the kind and just there's just a ton of stuff here.
So if we want to move on to the next page we'd use the next page token and we could literally sift through
all of these results that we've got here and we see we've got a lot of great information we can make
use of.
We've got description's titles we've got thumbnails so we can pull back all of this and make it in make
use of it within our javascript application.
So it does look like we're ready to go.
So let's build out our application accordingly.
And what are we going to do is I going to copy this.
You are L and I'm going to simply place it here within my javascript so we can refer to it as we're
building out the application.
So usually that's what I like to do.
Just make sure my API key is ready.
Make sure everything is working.
See the results coming in.
Using a web browser and then I know I'm ready to go with my javascript.
So what do we need in order to make this run.
We need an input area for the user.
So let's say you type Let's do a text input area and give it an idea of search YouTube and there we
go.
So next let's do an input and type button and so Button is going to search YouTube.
So Id and well just do a search and give it a value of search youtube stereo so we're all ready from
our h tim L point of view and we also need an area a div in order to output the results.
So let's just call that's put one.
So we're going to output all of the results from the search into output.
One.
So next let's add our window on load.
So window on load.
And we're going to launch in I.T. and then within I N I T.
So let's set up a function.
I N I T and within here.
So this is where we can add the event handlers.
So the the one that we initiate the search.
So let's add that in.
So if you want to pause the video at this point go ahead and set up your youtube API get that API key
and have it on the ready and just go over to the web you are l with this format here and just make sure
that your your API key is working.
And set up the application where you've got a text input a button and you're all ready to go and then
add that event listener.
So show you how to do that coming up.
So documents and we're just going to do a get element by ID.
So we're going to grab that button.
And once that gets clicked suicide or event listeners we're all going to do it within this one statement.
So on click let's do the Y search so searching YouTube.
And so false and clean this up a bit so it's more readable.
So there's our event listener and then next we need to set up a function so call it.
Why search.
So this is where we're actually going to search YouTube.
So we need to set up.
We need to grab the search term let's do variable search term and we're going to grab the value that's
contained within search YouTube.
So let's do a document get element by id and YouTube search and then what we need to do is we need that
value.
So this now we can use that as our search term.
Let's also set up a you are also variable you are l.
And for now when a set that you are EL-TIBI this
and then we'll update the parameters once we get things working.
So we're going to use that callback method that we did earlier with when we're getting the Jason data
when we're using that callback.
So I want to use that same format because I want to make sure that we can pull the results pop up properly
into our into our Javascript.
So let's just call it good.
Jason and we're going to pass over some parameters with Passover that you are l and then the other part
of it is the actual callback function.
So do data.
So a back in data within here.
And for now let's just console log that data.
So whatever we're retrieving back we're just going to log that into the console and then once we get
that information coming back via Jaison then we know that we can make use of it.
So the next thing is that we need to actually.
So we're going to close that one up a bit and actually don't need to duplicate it any more because I
already have all of the content there so I can get rid of that part now.
So next let's set up a function and this function is the actual get Giese on function.
So much like what we did earlier was set this one up from scratch.
So it's going to do that callback and it's going to use that built in function here that we've added
into the get Jaison as the callback function.
So paused the video.
And what I want you to do is create the AJAX call.
So remember the first thing that we do is we create that X MLH TTP request object.
Then we open we can use get.
In this case to get the information from YouTube because we saw that the URL works here within our browser.
So that means that it's going to work within get.
So we don't have to post and then we need to we can set the response type So a set the response type
as Jason and then the onload and we'll do the callback method as well within that function.
So go ahead and add that in I'll show you the solution coming up.
So we've seen this before where we set you or else we're passing you are l and the next.
We've got our callback function and this is that function that we're doing over here and right now we're
just going to log it out into the console because this is going a this is getting fairly complex so
we want to make sure that as everything is working once we've finished making H.T. ex-MIL HTP request
object.
So it's the first thing that we always start when we creating our Ajax request.
The next one is where we can do the open.
So this is where we set the path of the file that we're opening up and let's use get and let's pass
that you are all parameters so we're sending that within the function so we're grab that as well.
And next let's assume that this is true.
So it's a synchronous and we also have to send.
So send us the one that initiate set and this one is new so there's that.
We can set up the response type.
So this is the response type that we're expecting back from the server and the response type is Jason.
And then last but not least we have to set the onload.
So basically whenever the onload fires off we're going to fire off this function and this function is
the one that's going to do the callback.
So let's just let's do a check to make sure that SH our status is equal to 200.
So this is that double check.
So kind of like that.
The one we did earlier where we're looking at the ready state.
So same thing the status the ready state make sure that it's at 200 and then we're ready to do the callback.
So call back and within the callback.
All we're doing is we're passing in.
So that first parameter is null within the callback.
Actually what we're doing is we're just sending back that response so it's not actually know it's we're
sending back x x H.R. response object.
So all of that response information is going to get sent back into data.
And that should that should then display within the console log.
So I think we're ready to give it a go.
So let's try that out.
And let's just put in test and search and there we go.
So it did look like it worked and we were able to retrieve back 20 items there.
And that means that we're ready to output that information into our web page using javascript.
So what I want you to do now is set this up try and make sure that you can send over that request object
and that you retrieving information and then you're ready to simply output it within your web page to
loop through the Jason information and output into your web page.
So once you're at this point the rest of it is just going back to the plain old javascript where we're
outputting that content.
In the portrait part here is that get Giese on so this is the same thing that we did earlier where we
were doing the function we're passing in the function call back and that gives us the ability to utilize
that data directly within this earlier function.
So we don't have to do the console log of the ex-teacher our response only within this function we can
have it here as well.